README.md, before:

# HPMOR: generator for eBooks in English and German
Script for generating eBooks for [Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality (HPMOR)](https://www.hpmor.com) by Eliezer Yudkowsky. Featuring English original text as well as German translation by [Schneefl0cke](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/).

Generated eBooks can be found at [https://entorb.net/hpmor/](https://entorb.net/hpmor/).

## Tasks
- [x] find [complete German translation](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/)
- [x] fetch EN and DE original html text
- [x] extract chapters to single files
- [x] auto-cleanup files
- [x] manual-cleanup files
- [x] join to complete .html
- [x] convert to .epub, .mobi via [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org)
- [x] add title image
- [x] set meta data in .epub
- [x] write preamble
- [x] DE: convert br to p for long lines
- [x] DE: replace double br by p
- [x] converted " to nice looking ones

## TODO: alternative approach for EN ebook
- [ ] generate EPUB from [LaTeX repo by rjl20](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) instead, as there are quite some typos fixed and other nice improvements.
- [ ] manually convert DE HTML text into latex format to generate a beautiful PDF.

## Research
### DE translations on the web
- [html by Schneefl0cke (comlete)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/)
- [html by Patneu (chapter 1-33)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/55610c610004dede273a3811/)
- [html by Jost (chapter 1-22)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/4cb8beb50000203e067007d0/)
- [html by DieFuechsin (chapter 34-78)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/5c793dfe000a402030774dc7/)
- [html by Tralex (chapter 22-27)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/59a29b7f000813c22ec1454b/s)
- [YouTube German Audiobook (in progress)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h32Ht-HUbL0&list=PLfgJSXz3-j3aYhWyR3Q5JzcI3h_eibPls)
 
### other pdf projects
- [EN repo by rjl20](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) and resulting [PDF](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor/releases/download/v1.1.2/hpmor-1.1.2.pdf)
- [EN repo by xenohedron](https://github.com/xenohedron/hpmor-xetex)
- [DE repo by elkablo](https://github.com/elkablo/hpmor) based on [rjl20's repo](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) and [Jost's translation (chapter 1-22)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/4cb8beb50000203e067007d0/). Resulting [DE-PDF](https://blackhole.sk/~kabel/tmp/hpmor-1.pdf)
- [Reddit post by elkablo](https://www.reddit.com/r/HPMOR/comments/gvj0x2/german_printed_version_of_book_1_anyone_interested/)
- [Cover designs for printing](https://github.com/ianstormtaylor/hpmor)

### EPUB tools
- [HPMOR epub by ikeran.org via web.archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20170624094133/http://ikeran.org/rationality.epub) (linked at hpmor.com)
- Tools
  - [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org) command line doc converter
  - [calibre](https://calibre-eBook.com) another, also OpenSource
  - [Fanfic to epub](http://ff2eBook.com/index.php)
- LaTeX -> EPUB is not a preferred way, as EPUB under the hood is html.

Commit message:

trying to convert html and css to epub

README.md, after:

# HPMOR: generator for eBooks in English and German
Script for generating eBooks for [Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality (HPMOR)](https://www.hpmor.com) by Eliezer Yudkowsky. Featuring English original text as well as German translation by [Schneefl0cke](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/).

Generated eBooks can be found at [https://entorb.net/hpmor/](https://entorb.net/hpmor/).

## Tasks
- [x] find [complete German translation](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/)
- [x] fetch EN and DE original html text
- [x] extract chapters to single files
- [x] auto-cleanup files
- [x] manual-cleanup files
- [x] join to complete .html
- [x] convert to .epub, .mobi via [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org)
- [x] add title image
- [x] set meta data in .epub
- [x] write preamble
- [x] DE: convert br to p for long lines
- [x] DE: replace double br by p
- [x] converted " to nice looking ones

## TODO: alternative approach for EN ebook
- [x] generate EPUB from [LaTeX repo by rjl20](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) instead, as there are quite some typos fixed and other nice improvements.
- [ ] do not loose html css styling upon conversion to md and epub 
- [ ] manually convert DE HTML text into latex format to generate a beautiful PDF.

## Research
### DE translations on the web
- [html by Schneefl0cke (comlete)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/60044849000ccc541aef297e/)
- [html by Patneu (chapter 1-33)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/55610c610004dede273a3811/)
- [html by Jost (chapter 1-22)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/4cb8beb50000203e067007d0/)
- [html by DieFuechsin (chapter 34-78)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/5c793dfe000a402030774dc7/)
- [html by Tralex (chapter 22-27)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/59a29b7f000813c22ec1454b/s)
- [YouTube German Audiobook (in progress)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h32Ht-HUbL0&list=PLfgJSXz3-j3aYhWyR3Q5JzcI3h_eibPls)
 
### other pdf projects
- [EN repo by rjl20](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) and resulting [PDF](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor/releases/download/v1.1.2/hpmor-1.1.2.pdf)
- [EN repo by xenohedron](https://github.com/xenohedron/hpmor-xetex)
- [DE repo by elkablo](https://github.com/elkablo/hpmor) based on [rjl20's repo](https://github.com/rjl20/hpmor) and [Jost's translation (chapter 1-22)](https://www.fanfiktion.de/s/4cb8beb50000203e067007d0/). Resulting [DE-PDF](https://blackhole.sk/~kabel/tmp/hpmor-1.pdf)
- [Reddit post by elkablo](https://www.reddit.com/r/HPMOR/comments/gvj0x2/german_printed_version_of_book_1_anyone_interested/)
- [Cover designs for printing](https://github.com/ianstormtaylor/hpmor)

### EPUB tools
- [HPMOR epub by ikeran.org via web.archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20170624094133/http://ikeran.org/rationality.epub) (linked at hpmor.com)
- Tools
  - [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org) command line doc converter
  - [calibre](https://calibre-eBook.com) another, also OpenSource
  - [Fanfic to epub](http://ff2eBook.com/index.php)
- LaTeX -> EPUB is not a preferred way, as EPUB under the hood is html.
